The Limpopo Department of Education will open its Grade 1 and 8 applications for 2019 on Wednesday. “[On Wednesday] 18 April, [we] officially open admission of learners in public schools for the 2019 academic year. This process … will run from tomorrow until the 31 May 2018. “We urge [parents] to heed this call and apply for admission, as per the stipulated dates and not wait for the last minute,” said the department. Parents, whose children will be going to school for the first time, or moving to a new school next year, have been urged to obtain application forms from the nearest public school. “These forms must be completed and returned without delay, particularly in urban areas where the demand for space is high. It is advisable to return the forms within a day or two because admission will be treated on a first come first serve basis, assuming that all the requirements are met,” said the department. Early submissions will allow the department to plan and determine the quantity of resources needed for the smooth start of the 2019 academic year. “By the end of June 2018, parents would have been informed whether their children have been admitted or not,” said the department. To apply and secure space, the following documents are required from parents: •             Birth certificate or acceptable proof of birth •             Immunization card •             Transfer card •             Last report card If one is not a South African, the following documents are important: •             Study/work permit •             Temporary or permanent residence permit from the South African Department of Home Affairs •             Evidence to show that there is application for permission to stay in RSA. The following may not be used as a pre-condition for admission of learners •             Payment of a registration fee/admission fee •             Administering of a test before the child is admitted •             Payment of some school fees straight away •             Signing of an undertaking that you will pay the school fees Age of a learner (Grade R and 1) In terms of the South African Schools Act (SASA), children applying for Grade 1 can only be registered if they are five years old, turning six on or before 30 June 2019. Those who are four years, turning five, on or before 30 June 2019 must be admitted into Grade R. “It is very important for all parents, guardians and the community as a whole to actively take part in the registration of their children. The department will always be on guard to monitor learner admissions very closely and to protect the rights of our learners at all times,” said the department. – SAnews.gov.za