The South African National Defence Force (SANDF) says it has already started a process to respond to the challenges facing the Reserve Force. The force, which is a component of the SANDF, has planned a protest march in Pretoria this morning, aimed at addressing service conditions, as well as alleged corruption. SANDF spokesperson Siphiwe Dlamini says they have appointed a board of inquiry (BOI), instituted by the Chief of the SA Army last year, to look into allegations of corruption and other challenges associated with the call-up of reserve members. The inquiry will also look into whether processes and procedures have indeed been compromised and whether significant favouritism, including corruption, have manifested within the system of calling up of reserves. “Since the institution of the BOI, more than 30 members of the regular force and reserve force, have testified as witnesses in front of the board regarding various issues and as late as the last week of January 2018, more members have indicated that they want to testify. “The board is currently formulating its findings and recommendations to be submitted to the [Chief of the] Army, at the latest by the end of February 2018,” said Dlamini. Dlamini said the military police are busy with the process of laying charges against some of the alleged perpetrators. Once the findings of the BOI have been finalised, the military police will also be involved in the process of further investigating certain issues and charge implicated members. Dlamini reiterated that the SANDF has formal internal structures in place to address all grievances, alleged corrupt practices and/or any other transgressions reported against or by any member of the SANDF and or public. The SANDF is of the opinion that the planned march is totally ill-informed and unnecessary, said Dlamini. He said any SANDF member, who is found to be in breach of the Military Disciplinary Code and the Code of Conduct for uniformed and civilian members, will be subjected to the prescribed internal legal processes. – SAnews.gov.za