The status quo on the state of education in Africa was taken stock of underlining the importance of education as the cornerstone in achieving Agenda 2063. In response to the Assembly Decision in June 2015, a Committee of Ten Heads of State and Government as African champions of Education, Science and Technology met at the African Union Commission headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on Saturday. The meeting took place on the sidelines of the 30th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU) which kicks off on Sunday. “The Committee is instituted out of the conviction that human resources development; science and technology remain among the primary instruments and tools that will enable Africa to effectively implement its long term vision of a transformative Agenda 2063,” the AU said in a statement. Under the Chairmanship of H.E. President Macky SALL of Senegal, in his capacity as the President of the Committee, the meeting was attended by Chad, Egypt, Gabon, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Sierra Leone, and Tunisia. The President reiterated the core value of Education, Science and Technology to unleash the full potential of the Continent towards socio-economic development. “It was further emphasized that the implementation of the continental strategies on education science and technology will require and justify increased investments in these sectors. “With regards to operational matters the Committee discussed and adopted its Rules of Procedure and put in place its first Bureau,” the AU said. The Committee reiterated that it is imperative to provide strategic policy direction that promotes Education, Science, Technology and Innovation in Africa and to constantly monitor progress on agreed decisions, targets and addressing barriers. “A draft decision for the consideration and adoption by the AU Assembly was among the outcomes of the brief deliberations of the Committee of Ten Heads of State and Government Champions for Education, Science and Technology. “Likewise upon the generous offer made by the Republic of Malawi the Committee agreed to hold its extraordinary session at a date to be communicated in due time,” the AU said. – SAnews.gov.za 