Labour Deputy Minister iNkosi Phathekile Holomisa on Thursday urged South African companies to take advantage of Productivity SA’s Enterprise Support Programme (ESP) to elevate their productive capacity. Productivity SA’s Enterprise Support Programme is one of interventions by the entity to help businesses to achieve a productive high-income economy which is globally competitive, targeted at the productive sectors of the economy that has a potential for labour absorption. Deputy Minister Holomisa was addressing a Productivity Promotion Seminar organised by Productivity SA and the Japan Productivity Centre (JPC) held at the Hilton Hotel in Sandton. The Productivity Promotion Seminar was held to highlight the Application of the Japanese 5s (sort, set in order, sweep, standardise and sustain) and Kaizen (continuous improvement) Concepts for Productivity Improvement. Deputy Minister Holomisa, in his keynote address, said one of South Africa’s key priorities was to bolster and stimulate the sluggish economy to address the challenges of rising unemployment, poverty and inequality. “We should do this with the understanding that the foundation of any productive high –income economy lies in a globally competitive, creative and innovative workforce,” the Deputy Minister said. The Deputy Minister called for an integrated approach to nurturing, attracting and retaining a first-world talent base to be implemented, emphasising that the Technical Cooperation with Japan should be central to any interventions. He urged all stakeholders in the economy to harness creativity, energy and initiatives of strategic partners, in particular the private sector and labour, as the primary drivers of South Africa’s growth aspirations. “We wish to see more small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) in the productive sectors of our economy participating in the programme and implementing the Kaizen philosophy, with management and workers trained and collaborating to improve the productivity of the enterprises. “This is one way for us to ensure optimal productivity, progress and resilient economies that will create more job opportunities and make South Africa and the continent at large to take their rightful place amongst the best economies in the world,” he said. The Productivity South Africa and Japan Productive Centre (JPC) co-operation has been in existence for the past 12 years. At the heart of this co-operation between the two organisations is the promotion of productivity in Africa through sharing of Asian productivity experiences. – SAnews.gov.za