Professor Mkhululi Lukhele has taken over the reins as the Head of the Gauteng Health Department with immediate effect following his appointment on Thursday. Professor Lukhele has worked as Head of Orthopaedics at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital and has recently completed his term as the Head of the Wits School of Clinical Medicine. The new head is also a convener of a high-level intervention team that was appointed by Gauteng Premier David Makhura and Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi late last year to coordinate a recovery plan for the department. Lukhele’s appointment follows the end of the post-retirement appointment of Dr Ernest Kenoshi on Tuesday. Dr Kenoshi’s career spanned two decades, with his recent work being the leadership he provided in assisting the department to deal with the Life Esidimeni tragedy. He also led the Steve Biko Academic Hospital, which is known as one of the best hospitals in the country. “As a department, we are grateful for his service and amazing commitment in imparting skills and dedication in improving the quality of healthcare in the province. We wish him well in all his future endeavours,” said Health MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa. Senior posts filled In addition to the appointment of the departmental head, several managerial positions, such as the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Director for Legal Services have been filled. Kabelo Lehloenya has been appointed the Chief Financial Officer as of 1 February 2018. Prior to her appointment, Lehloenya, who is a Chartered Accountant, held the position of Group Chief Financial Officer for a Johannesburg Stock Exchange listed entity. In addition to that, Advocate Mpelegeng Lebeloane has been appointed Chief Director: Legal Services, moving from her previous position of Chief of Staff in the MEC’s office. Advocate Lebeloane is no stranger to the public service. Prior to her appointment, she worked for the Department of Water and Sanitation as the Director in Legal Services Department. The department has also prioritised the filling of the Chief Executive Officer’s positions in the following hospitals: Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital, Steve Biko Academic Hospital, Kalafong Tertiary Hospital as well as the position for the Chief Director for Ekurhuleni District Health Services. According to the department, 1 084 doctors, 715 professional nurses, 286 assistant nurses, and 164 staff nurses have been appointed since the beginning of the current financial year. “I believe these new appointments will go a long in ensuring the quality of health service throughout the department in both clinical and non-clinical services.  They will also assist us to tighten our financial controls as well as restoring the integrity of the department in observing high professional standards,” said MEC Ramokgopa. The MEC said the appointments form part of the department’s efforts to strengthen leadership and administration capabilities. –SAnews.gov.za