Plans are underway to ensure the successful hosting of the 10th BRICS Summit in July, Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said on Thursday. “Plans are underway to ensure the successful hosting of the Summit,” said the Minister. In a statement, Mokonyane said South Africa has made headway on media coordination in preparations for the Summit. She called on the media to apply to be accredited for the Summit that will take place at the Sandton Convention Centre. The three-day summit is set to get underway on 25 July under the theme: “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution”. South Africa assumed the rotational chair ship of BRICS from 1 January until 31 December 2018. Mokonyane said the 2018 Summit will be a seminal milestone for BRICS cooperation, as it represents a decade of BRICS cooperation at the highest diplomatic level. In addition, the theme, she said, is reflective of the core priorities of each one of the BRICS members, notably to strive towards the creation of an inclusive society and global partnerships that will bring prosperity to all humankind. The theme is intended to align and ensure strategic continuity with the approved themes for South Africa’s chair ship of both the South African Development Community (SADC) and the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). The Minister said the Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) approach is informed by the need to deepen, broaden and intensify relations within the grouping and among the individual countries for more sustainable, equitable and mutually beneficial development. “This approach takes into consideration each member’s growth, development and poverty objectives to ensure relations are built on the respective country’s economic strengths and to avoid competition where possible.” In addition, the bloc offers a unique opportunity for BRICS countries to extend and advance their cooperation in ways that meaningfully promote their economic development agendas as well as that of other developing countries. Media interested in covering the summit can register online (https://macc.gcis.gov.za ). Journalists coming from outside South Africa are also reminded that if using passports as identification should note that the passports should be valid for at least 30 days beyond the expected date of departure to South Africa. These passports must have at least two unused pages when presented for endorsements. Meanwhile yellow fever vaccination certificates will be required from the following: The closing date for the 10th BRICS Summit media accreditation is 22 June. More information on the Summit can be found on: http://www.brics2018.org.za/ . - SAnews.gov.za